{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13060\viewh12680\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Introductory Overview:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\
This project demonstrates my understanding of statistics when conducting A/B Hypothesis Tests in Excel. It uses real data from an anonymous political email campaign.\
\
In this scenario, 3 different variants of an email were sent to registered voters in the Democratic Party with a CTA for donations. Variant 1 is the old/current variant, and Variants 2 and 3 are the new/alternative variants. We want to know if the new/alternative email variants are better at driving Shares than the old/current variant; we are not concerned with donations at this time. A few simple A/B tests will answer our hypotheses.\
\
But first, we can do a quick exploratory analysis using a simple Pivot Table to count the number of shares per variant and find the percentage of Shares for each variant. At first glance, it appears that Variant3 drives the highest percentage (6.64%, cell P3) of Shares and that Variant1 (6.36%, cell P5) performs better than the new Variant2 (6.35%, cell P4). However, we cannot draw any conclusions without statistically significant evidence.\
\

\f0\b \ul Hypothesis Testing Procedure:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\
To start our A/B test, we must first make a new column, ShareNumeric, that converts the character datatype in our Share column (\'92N\'92 or \'91Y\'92) into a numeric datatype (\'910\'92 or \'911\'92). Now we can use a Pivot Table to find the averages and variances of Shares for each email Variant, and with these values we can conduct our hypothesis test.\
\
Our null hypotheses are that neither Variant2 nor Variant3 are better at driving more Shares than Variant1. We can write in plain text our null hypotheses in Cell R9 for testing Variant2 and Cell S10 for testing Variant3.\
\
Our tolerance level for both tests is set low (a = 0.025) to reduce our probability for Type I errors as our exploratory analysis revealed minuscule percentage differences of Shares between Variants.\
\
In Cell R11, we can calculate the test statistic (z) using the averages, variances, and counts of Variant1 and Variant2 from our Pivot Table. In Cell S11, we do a similar test statistic calculation using our Pivot Table values for Variant1 and Variant3.\
\
In Cell R12, we can calculate the p-value using the NORM.S.DIST function. Since we assume our null hypothesis is true, we set our first argument as the negative of our test-statistic in Cell R11 and our second argument as TRUE for normal cumulative distribution. We repeat these steps in Cell S12 for our test of Variant3.\
\
Finally, we can quickly see our conclusion in Cell R13 using an IF function. Our first argument, the logical test, is that our p-value in R12 is greater than our tolerance level in Cell R10. If true, our second argument invokes Cell R9, where we fail to reject our null hypothesis and assert that Variant2 is not better at driving Shares than Variant1. If false, meaning our p-value is lower than our tolerance level, we can reject the null and assert that Variant2 drives more Shares than Variant1. We repeat this for Variant3.\
\
For this first A/B test, we fail to reject either null hypothesis and can assert that neither Variant2 nor Variant3 are better at driving Shares than Variant1.\
\
However, this conclusion is only true at the most generalized level of our mailing list and does not consider potential confounding factors. We can learn more specific and actionable insights about the effectiveness of our email variants by segmenting individuals based on party affiliation, age demographics, and gender. \
\
We can conduct this further analysis simply by creating additional Pivot Tables that focus on these attributes and then applying the same formulas to carry out multiple hypothesis tests. \
\
For example, when we segment our data based on Party Affiliation, we find that Variant 2 is better than Variant 1 for Independents and that Variant 3 is better than Variant 1 for those categorized as Other. When we segment our data based on age demographics, we find that Variant 2 is better than Variant 1 for ages 25-34. Gender does not seem to make a difference.\
\

\f0\b \ul Recommendations:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\
In conclusion, we could confidently recommend that Independents and those aged 25-34 are sent Variant 2 and that Others are sent Variant 3 for higher Share rates. However, when considering the bigger picture goals of our analysis, it may be best to recommend continuing to design and test additional email variants that will drive higher Share rates across all variables.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}